Thank you for joining
our session.
Today, we'd like to provide
step-by-step guidance
to show you some of the ways
you can manage price changes
for your auto-renewable
subscriptions
in App Store Connect.
I'm Bryan and I'm part of
the App Store Monetization team
based in Cupertino.
App Store Connect provides
many tools to help you manage
your subscriptions pricing
on the App Store.
To name a few examples,
you can use App Store Connect
to create subscription offers
to help you acquire, retain,
and win back customers.
You can also use it to set
the price of your subscription
across all available
territories.
It gives you the ability to
increase or decrease the price
of your subscription
for new customers
as well as manage
price increases for customers
on preserved pricing.
And today's presentation
is focused on these
last two capabilities.
Today we'll walk through
the necessary steps
to create and manage
your price increases.
We'll show you how
to remove preserved pricing
from specific cohorts,
how to initiate
a price decrease,
and finally,
we'll discuss how you can edit
upcoming price changes
before they go live.
So let's get started
by simulating the steps
you would take in order
to initiate a price increase
on your subscription.
This process will begin in
the subscription pricing section
of App Store Connect,
which can be found
within the details of your
auto-renewable subscription.
Start by clicking
on the plus button.
Then, click on
Plan Subscription Price Change
from the drop-down menu.
You'll then be prompted
to select the territories
where you want to edit pricing.
Once you've made your selection,
click Next.
You'll then choose the date
you'd like to begin
your price increase, followed
by the currency and new price.
Then, click Next.
Apple automatically calculates
the prices for all territories
based on your
chosen price point,
determined by the most recent
foreign exchange rates
and taxation.
However, you still have
the option to set
different price points
per territory in the event
it's more appropriate to your
services value in those markets.
Once you've completed
your review of pricing
in each region, click Next.
Then, you'll be prompted
with the option
of how to manage pricing
for your current subscribers.
You can either keep the current
price for existing subscribers
so that anyone who has
subscribed before the start date
of the price change
won't be affected,
or apply the new price
to your existing subscribers.
Let's review that
first scenario more closely.
If you don't want to apply
your price increase
to your existing subscribers --
for example,
to keep existing customer
commitments or reduce churn --
select Preserve current price
for existing subscribers.
Then, click Next.
You'll then be prompted
to review and confirm
the list of planned
price changes.
Now, let's discuss how you would
apply your price increase
to your existing subscribers.
By selecting
"Apply price increase
to existing subscribers,"
you will have the option
to apply the price change
to existing subscribers
who are paying the price
of your subscription
currently displayed
on the App Store.
Any subscribers
on previously preserved prices
won't be affected.
The App Store will automatically
communicate to any customer
impacted by the price increase
that a change is
scheduled to occur.
Depending on certain criteria,
customers will either be
notified or asked to consent
before renewing
at a higher price.
Customer consent is
required in certain markets
as well as in scenarios
when large
or frequent price
increases occur.
In the event your price
change meets these criteria,
App Store Connect
will provide an indicator icon
noting consent is required.
Apple will then inform affected
customers through email,
push notification,
and in-app messaging
to ask them to agree
to the new price.
You also have
the option to use
the showPriceConsentIfNeeded()
method
to surface the in-app
consent sheet at specific times.
In the event
of the notification flow,
Apple will send an email to all
customers and provide
an in-app message to customers
on iOS 13.4 and later,
at least 30 days prior
to the price increase.
Then, seven days prior
to the price increase,
if a customer has not yet viewed
an in-app message
and has push notifications
enabled,
they will also receive
a push notification on iOS,
iPadOS, and macOS.
The price will then
automatically increase
on day 30,
unless a customer chooses
to cancel their subscription
before then.
Now jumping back
into App Store Connect.
When choosing to apply
your price increase
to existing subscribers,
you'll be prompted to select
the regions where you would like
to schedule your price change.
Once selected, click Next.
As mentioned,
Apple automatically calculates
the prices for all territories
based on your
chosen price point.
But you again have the option
to set different prices
for specific territories.
Once you've set any specific
territory prices, click Next.
You'll again
be prompted to review
the list of planned
price changes.
And in the event
you want to export the list,
click Export as CSV
in the top right.
And once you're ready
to initiate your price increase,
click Confirm.
In both scenarios,
once a price change
has been scheduled,
you'll be able to review it
until it goes into effect,
alongside your current prices.
And you can view details about
your upcoming price change
by clicking on the drop-down
next to the date of the change.
However, note that once
a price change goes into effect
on your scheduled date,
it cannot be edited or undone.
If you initially decide
to preserve prices,
you have the option to undo
this action at a later time.
Now let's talk about how
you would initiate this
in the event
you have subscribers
on multiple
preserved prices.
Keep in mind that
if you have subscribers
on multiple preserved prices
in the same territory,
you can only increase
a preserved price
to the next highest price.
So if you decide to bring all
subscribers on preserved prices
to the current price,
start with the preserved price
closest to the current price
and unpreserve it,
then unpreserve the next
highest price, and so on.
Let's take a look at an example.
This developer
is looking to increase
multiple preserved customer
cohorts to the 3.99 price point,
which is the price
they currently have displayed
on the store.
They'll start by increasing
the price of their 2.99 cohort
since it's the closest group
to the current price.
As you can see here,
the new price of 3.99
goes into effect on February 1.
Next, they'll bring
the 1.99 cohort
up to the current price
of 3.99 on March 1,
and all of their customers will
now be paying the same price
for their subscription.
While this example shows
price increases occurring
on the first of the month,
note that you have the ability
to choose whatever date
works best for your business.
To initiate a price increase
on a preserved cohort,
click the date
of the price change
that occurred closest
to your current price.
Then, click Edit Price.
And select the territories
where you want
to unpreserve the price.
Click Next.
Review the changes
and click Confirm.
You'll then repeat these steps
for subscribers
on other preserved prices,
starting with the next price
closest to the current price.
Now, let's look at how
to plan a price decrease.
We'll start again in the
Subscription Pricing section
of App Store Connect.
Click on the plus button,
then click on
Plan Subscription Price Change
from the drop-down menu.
Select the territories where
you want to decrease the price.
Once you've made your selection,
click Next.
You'll then choose the date
you'd like to begin
your price decrease,
followed by the currency
and new price.
Then, click Next.
Again, you'll be prompted
to review the price changes
in each territory and optionally
set different prices
per territory.
Once you've completed
your review of pricing
in each region, click Next.
You will then be prompted
to confirm
your upcoming price decreases
by clicking Confirm.
In the event that
any current subscribers
are paying higher
than the new price,
they will automatically
renew at the lower price.
Your price decrease
will then go into effect
on the scheduled date.
Note that if you want
to decrease the price
of your subscription,
the price will decrease
for all subscribers
and you can't preserve
any higher-priced cohorts.
Let's take a look
at another example.
Here the developer has chosen
to reduce the price
of their subscription
to 99 cents starting on March 1.
Since that price is cheaper
than all of their existing
pricing cohorts,
all customers will be
brought down
to the new price
starting on March 1.
Finally, let's talk about
how you can edit
your upcoming price changes
before they go into effect.
If you decide you no longer
need the price change to occur,
click Delete Price Change
or click Edit Price Change
to make your necessary
modifications.
You'll then be able
to make edits
to the regions where
your price change will occur,
the date your price change
will begin,
and your new
subscription price.
You can also automate
many elements
of subscription price management
with the App Store Connect API.
For more information on all
of the topics discussed today,
please visit
our developer website,
which has a number of resources
for you to review.
And that concludes
today's presentation.
We hope this has helped you
understand the necessary steps
to take when choosing
to initiate a price change
for your business.